Add docs page for `@mlflow.test` pytest regression testing (#24011)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/docs/genai/eval-monitor/regression-testing.mdx

---
title: Regression Testing with Pytest
description: Write agent behavioral and regression tests as plain pytest functions with @mlflow.test, and gate them in CI to prevent quality regressions.
---

import { APILink } from "@site/src/components/APILink";
import WorkflowSteps from '@site/src/components/WorkflowSteps';
import TilesGrid from '@site/src/components/TilesGrid';
import TileCard from '@site/src/components/TileCard';
import ImageBox from '@site/src/components/ImageBox';
import { Bot, Activity, MessageSquare, TestTube, ShieldCheck, Gauge, ScrollText } from 'lucide-react';

# Regression Testing with Pytest

As you ship changes to an agent (a new prompt, a model swap, a refactored tool), you need confidence that you did not silently break behavior that used to work. The most effective way to get that confidence is the same one you already use for the rest of your code: **write a test, and run it in CI.**

> MLflow lets you write agent behavioral and regression tests as ordinary `pytest` functions. You mark a test with `@mlflow.test`, run scorers (built-in or custom, code-based or LLM judges) against your agent's output with <APILink fn="mlflow.genai.evaluate" />, and assert that they pass. Every test in the run is recorded under a single MLflow run, so a green CI check and a browsable record of what passed and what failed come from the exact same source.

Reviewer: It's unclear what `in the run` refers to. Can we use `session` instead?

Author: Changed to "in the session" in 42b9d77.

<ImageBox src="/images/mlflow-3/eval-monitor/regression-test-result-table.png" alt="MLflow regression test run showing each test case as a row with a consolidated pass/fail result" width="90%" />

```python
import mlflow
from mlflow.genai.scorers import Guidelines

@mlflow.test

> def test_answers_concisely_in_english(agent):

Reviewer: The `agent` fixture used here (and in Step 2) is never defined on the page, so copy-pasting this errors with `fixture 'agent' not found`. Consider adding a one-line `@pytest.fixture` for `agent`, or a sentence noting the reader supplies their own.

Author: Added a note that `agent` is a user-supplied fixture in 42b9d77.

    result = mlflow.genai.evaluate(
        predict_fn=agent.invoke,
        data=[{"inputs": {"question": "What are your support hours?"}}],
        scorers=[
            Guidelines(name="is_english", guidelines="The answer must be written in English."),
            Guidelines(name="is_concise", guidelines="The answer must be a single sentence."),
        ],
    )
    assert result.passed, result.reason
```

```bash
pytest tests/regression
```

> ## Regression test vs a dataset evaluation?

Reviewer: Minor: reads slightly awkwardly as a question. Maybe `Regression test vs. dataset evaluation` (drop the `?`), or a full question like `How is a regression test different from a dataset evaluation?`.

Author: yea dropping question mark makes sense

Author: Dropped the question mark in 42b9d77.

<WorkflowSteps
  steps={[
    {
      icon: Bot,
      title: "Set up",
      description: "Run `mlflow agent setup` to install the MLflow skills into your coding agent and wire up tracing, so every agent run is captured."
    },
    {
      icon: Activity,
      title: "Run & observe",
      description: "Run your agent and review the resulting traces in the MLflow UI to find where it misbehaves."
    },
    {
      icon: MessageSquare,
      title: "Capture failures",
      description: "A failure in production, a thumbs-down, or feedback logged on a trace is the raw material for your next test."
    },
    {
      icon: TestTube,
      title: "Write a regression test",
      description: "Turn the failing case into a @mlflow.test: pin its input and assert the behavior you actually wanted."
    },
    {
      icon: ShieldCheck,
      title: "Gate in CI",
      description: "Run the suite on every pull request so the regression can never come back unnoticed."
    }
  ]}
/>

## Quickstart

:::tip[Let your coding agent set things up]

> Run `mlflow agent setup` once from inside your project's Git repository to install the **MLflow skills** into your coding agent (Claude Code, Codex, and more). The skills teach the agent how MLflow tracing, scorers, and `@mlflow.test` work, so it can wire up tracing and write regression tests for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run `mlflow agent setup` once from inside your project to install the **MLflow skills** into your coding agent (Claude Code, Codex, and more). The skills teach the agent how MLflow tracing, scorers, and `@mlflow.test` work, so it can wire up tracing and write regression tests for you.
```

`mlflow agent setup` works for non-git projects (you get a warning tho).

Author: Applied in 42b9d77.

```bash
uvx mlflow@latest agent setup
```

:::

### Step 1: Enable the pytest plugin

`@mlflow.test` runs through a pytest plugin. Enable it once by adding the following to your project's root `conftest.py`:

```python
# conftest.py
pytest_plugins = ["mlflow.pytest.plugin"]

> ```

Reviewer: Most projects already keep their pytest config in `pyproject.toml`, so consider leading with that instead of `conftest.py`. Per the [pytest docs](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/how-to/plugins.html), `-p` flags can live in `addopts`:

````suggestion
`@mlflow.test` runs through a pytest plugin. Enable it once by adding the following to your `pyproject.toml`:

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
addopts = ["-p", "mlflow.pytest.plugin"]
```
````

(`pytest_plugins` only works in a conftest; this `addopts` form is the config-file equivalent. The `pytest -p mlflow.pytest.plugin` single-run note below still applies.)

Author: Switched Step 1 to `pyproject.toml` `addopts` in 42b9d77. The parallel section keeps a `conftest.py` for the run-consolidation hook.

Or enable it for a single run with `pytest -p mlflow.pytest.plugin`.

### Step 2: Write a test

Mark the test with `@mlflow.test`, call <APILink fn="mlflow.genai.evaluate" /> with your agent and the scorers that encode the behavior you care about, then assert on the result.

```python

> import mlflow

Reviewer: Consider pinning a concrete file path at the top of the example and running that exact path in Step 3, so the quickstart is self-contained. As written, Step 3 runs `pytest tests/regression` (a directory the page never introduces), which implies, and would collect, other unmentioned test files.

```suggestion
# tests/regression/test_support_agent.py
import mlflow
```

Then Step 3 becomes `pytest tests/regression/test_support_agent.py`, so the reader runs exactly the test shown.

Author: Pinned `tests/regression/test_support_agent.py` and run that exact path now, in 42b9d77.

            Guidelines(name="is_concise", guidelines="The answer must be a single sentence."),
        ],
    )
    assert result.passed, result.reason
```

`result.passed` is `True` only when every scorer passed for every row. `result.reason` names the failing scorers and their rationales, so when the assertion fails, pytest shows you _why_ without a second run.

You can use the full range of MLflow scorers here, including [built-in LLM judges](/genai/eval-monitor/scorers/llm-judge/predefined), [custom judges](/genai/eval-monitor/scorers/llm-judge/custom-judges), and [code-based scorers](/genai/eval-monitor/scorers/custom).

### Step 3: Run it

```bash
pytest tests/regression
```

Run it like any other pytest suite. The whole session is recorded as a single MLflow run. Open the **Evaluation runs** page in the MLflow UI and select the run to inspect each test case, including its conversation, trace, and per-assertion results.

<ImageBox src="/images/mlflow-3/eval-monitor/regression-test-case-detail.png" alt="Regression test run detail showing a test case's conversation and per-assertion pass/fail results" width="100%" />

## Run the suite in parallel

> Agent tests are slow: each one runs your real agent and its LLM-judge scorers. `pytest` runs tests sequentially by default, so a suite of any size quickly takes minutes. [pytest-xdist](https://pytest-xdist.readthedocs.io/) spreads the tests across worker processes to cut that down.

Reviewer: "a suite of any size quickly takes minutes" reads a bit awkwardly: "of any size" implies even a one-test suite takes minutes. The point is the total runtime climbs fast even for a modest suite.

```suggestion
Agent tests are slow: each one runs your real agent and its LLM-judge scorers. `pytest` runs tests sequentially by default, so even a modest suite quickly adds up to minutes. [pytest-xdist](https://pytest-xdist.readthedocs.io/) spreads the tests across worker processes to cut that down.
```

Author: Applied in 42b9d77.
